>> Scott Moss: A couple things,
I pushed up the changes to step two,
which is what we're
gonna be working on now.
So if you wanna get those changes, you can
go to step two, check out to that branch,
and all the changes will be there.
The other thing is, if you did make
a new API account with OpenAI for
the model that I'm using four O Mini, you
might have to give yourself permission in
the OpenAI to use that model if you got an
error saying you don't have permission, so
just make sure you go on the dashboard and
give yourself permission to that model.
You can also just try a different model,
like 3.5 which I think everyone
has permission to by default.
It's just not as good.
So your results may vary.
Use four O Mini.
Let's actually make a chat.
So like we talked about and then you
saw I asked, hey, my name is Scott,
and then I said, what is my name?
And it had no idea.
So we, we will work up to that.
But the first part of of making
this work is just making
sure that there is some
form of chat history,
some form of back and forth,
that I can have with this system.
So it's not just transactional,
we wanna build that.
The difference between one off LLM calls
again these are really great if you
have everything that you need
to answer the question and
you can provide it to the LLM,
you don't really need a chat.
Like for instance, if you just want
it to summarize like a PDF and
you have the PDF you can just upload the
PDF and ask it to summarize the PDF and
you don't really need to chat history
unless you want follow-up questions, and
then then you do but these are really
good for like standalone tasks.
So and like an assistant use case this
might be book this counter meeting or
send us email or something like that
just one off things, really great for
answering questions, simple analyses,
cogeneration that I showed you,
translation is a really good one.
It's actually really good at that.
Then you get into chat-based, right?
So chat-based is, again,
maintains the conversation history,
understands context from
the previous messages.
So as long as it is our
responsibility to feed the LM all
the messages in the history,
it won't do that by default.
So what you'll see in a lot of like
chat apps is that they're passing
the entire history around all the time.
At least that's like how it used to be.
I think people have gotten a lot smarter.
Like they would literally,
you'll send the whole all
the messages down to the front end.
And then when someone sends a message, you
send all the messages back, which is like,
why would you do that?
You just save it in the database or
Redis or whatever.
But a lot of people did that.
But the AI needs all the messages.
For now, we'll talk about different
techniques because eventually that
doesn't work.
But for now, if you want it to know
something you have to give it all
the information that it needs to know.
So the other thing about chat based
interactions is we had that in our code
here, right?
We had this right here, this role of user.
When you get to a chat based interface,
you start to use the other roles like
system and assistant, and
we'll talk about those.
There's also another one called tool that
you will talk about that one too [LAUGH].
And then there's higher token
usage because remember you get
charged on all the tokens on your
input and the tokens on your output.
So if you're sending every single message
that you've ever said on every single
request, so the AI knows all the history
that you had so far, you get charged for
those tokens too.
So it's not just the new
message that you add,
it's every message ever that you add it,
plus the new message.
And those are the tokens
you get charged on.
The more tokens you add, the more it's
gonna cost, the longer it's going to take.
So as you can see, that's a problem.
And a lot of startups
are solving just that problem.
Literally just that problem,
a lot of companies are solving that.
And there's many ways and
we'll talk about some of them.
I'll address them and practicality in
the production course version of this.
But yeah,
there are some constraints there.
It does get expensive.
And then, yeah,
obviously more complex state management.
Again, you need to save
these messages somewhere.
You got to put them in a database and
different things like that.
And we're gonna have like a database
in this course that we use as a file.
But you'll see like the different
constraints and things around that.
So, it just it just
complicates it a little more.
If you wanna do a chat you
got to think about things.
One thing though,
like as I said It does get more expensive,
it goes up every message,
it's gonna go up, and
the thing you have to think about
is when we get into tool calling.
Sometimes, like for instance, if you
had a function that allowed the AI to
search the web, and it searched the web,
and it came back with like 10
full-blown HTML pages, and then that's
what you return back to the chat.
Guess how many tokens that's
going to eat up in your costs,
just so it can answer this one
question that you asked it.
And it's always there.
And you only ask that question once,
but it's still in your history.
And then you keep adding and then you
do another thing that adds, right?
Like eventually you run out of memory.
And the token count goes up over time.
So those are like things
you have to think about.
And then once you hit that
context window size, you're done.
So this is why sometimes like in Clawed,
if you use Clawed online, it'll like,
eventually, once you start using it so
much in one chat,
it'll have like a little thing at
the bottom says longer conversations.
Or it'll be like a, I forgot exactly
what it says, but it's like, hey,
you should start a new chat.
You need to make a new chat because
like this, this is getting too long.
GPT solution is they randomly,
depending on what you say, we'll take
what you said and it'll say like
updating memory or something like that.
And it'll, it'll remember what you just
said and save it to a database, so
it doesn't have to feed all of your chat
messages over, and over, and over again.
It just remembers the important
things that you said, and
it feeds those summaries.
It just summarizes everything you said so
far versus feeding word for
word everything you said.
So some things get lost,
some things don't.
It's not exactly what you said,
but it's a summary, and
that's one technique that
you'll see happen a lot.
So lots of things.
Cool, okay.
So common patterns.
We did the one-off pattern
just now recently, right?
You literally call complete,
you give it a thing.
It'll do a thing.
This is just some example code,
it's not exactly our abstraction, but
I think you get the point.
This is, for instance, if you wanted to.
And if you had an app
that generated topics for
something, you could pass in a topic and
then it'll generate a description for
that topic.
So this is an example of
doing a one off thing.
This is how you can incorporate AI
that literally just take something and
completes and
does one thing at the end and
you don't have to worry about like a chat.
So this is a great example of that.
But then you get into like a chat pattern
and it's very similar to like what we just
did where we have to pass in
the messages an array of messages.
But as you can see,
the difference here is that like we prefix
those messages with the previous messages.
So new messages go at
the end of the array.
So, older messages are at the beginning
and then you add the new user one.
And you have to do that every single time.
So, like, you're passing in
the entire history every single time.
So, it knows what the history is.
So, that's pretty much
the big difference there.
The big thing that you'll
have to do with chat
based LLM stuff is managing history and
tokens.
That's the biggest thing because
if you run out of tokens,
your AI will never be able to
answer a question going for it.
So imagine you just keep sending it
messages and then eventually it's like
nope, nope, and it and because you
keep adding it, it just gets bigger.
So you have to figure out what
is the best strategy for you,
or strategies for your application
to handle all of this history
that you need to provide if
you wanna maintain a chat.
You don't have to do
that with a one-off one.
The one-off one doesn't even know
what the last thing you said was.
So it's a lot simpler.
If you're not gonna build a chat
interface of somebody's chatting,
you don't need to chat LM.
How is what they talk to it?
Unless you're doing like over
an email thread or something.
If you otherwise like just
use a transactional one.
And then, if you are building a chat
base UI UX, then you do need a chat LM.
You wouldn't wanna do one off LLM,
calls inside of a chat
that'd be really confusing.
Nobody would know why.
It doesn't remember anything.
It has the shortest term memory,
and nothing would work.
So that's how you decide,
are you building a chat app, Chat LLM?
Are you not building a chat app?
Probably not Chat LLM, that's about it.